README.rst, before:

phase-currentcost
=================

Master branch:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost.png?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost
    :alt: Travis CI Build Status

Develop branch:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost.png?branch=develop
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost
    :alt: Travis CI Build Status

Functional test with fixtures to simulate CurrentCost on port COM and waited for currentCost to send messages.

TO BE COMPLETED (goals of the project)

List of features:
 
 * support usb disconnexion
 * send instant consumption
 * send historical consumption
 * send timeout message
 * send bad formated message eroor
 * To be completed

Dependencies
------------

TO BE COMPLETED

 * rabbitMQ

Installation
------------

TO BE COMPLETED

Usage
-----

.. code-block:: bash

    $ phase-currentcost -h
    usage: phase-currentcost [-h] [-t TTY_PORT] [-r RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL] [-v]
                             variable_name site_name

    positional arguments:
      variable_name         name of the variable
      site_name             name of the location of the variable

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -t TTY_PORT, --tty-port TTY_PORT
                            tty port to connect to current cost
      -r RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL, --rabbitmq-credential RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL
                            credential for rabbitMQ. By default, RabbitMQ is
                            deactivated. To activate it you have to give your
                            credential. Format: username:password.
      -v, --verbose         activate verbose mode

By default:

* We are looking for default tty port located in /dev/currentcost. You can over-write it if you want using --tty-port argument.
* RabbitMQ is not activated. To activate it you have to add your credential to phase-currentcost script. To give your credential to currentcost script, use --rabbitMQ-credential argument.
* If RabbitMQ is not activated, we display currentcost message in stdout. Else we send it over the network. 

Examples: 

To see the current consumption on Current cost on stdout use:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ phase-currentcost electric_meter liogen_home --tty-port /dev/currentcost

**IDEA: PUT CONSOLE OUTPUT AS AN EXAMPLE**

With rabbitMQ message over the network:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ phase-currentcost electric_meter liogen_home --tty-port /dev/currentcost --rabbitmq-credential admin:password -v

**IDEA: PUT CONSOLE OUTPUT AS AN EXAMPLE**

Structure of a message send 

Message send through RabbitMQ
-----------------------------

A message is a JSON containing this properties:

  * **variableID**: name of the variable
  * **siteID**: Name of the site
  * **date**: Date in UTC
  * **dstTimezone**: Timezone with DST
  * **nonDstTimezone**: Timezone without DST
  * **message**: Information message

Messages list:

+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ 
| Channel     | Message                         | Description                                       |
+=============+=================================+===================================================+ 
| error       | utils.TTY_CONNECTION_PROBLEM    | Send when TTY port is not reachable               |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| error       | utils.CURRENTCOST_TIMEOUT       | Send when TTY port is connected but reach timeout |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| error       | utils.CC_INCORRECT_MESSAGE      | Send when Currentcost send an invalid message     |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| currentcost | CurrentCost XML message         | Send Currentcost XML message                      |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

Development process
-------------------

Install socat

**Philosophy**

In this project, we will try to use the best practices of the development.

* **Scenario based design** 
    * Take a paper and write what you code should do and how it should do using a story. (DESCRIBE MORE)
* **Document driven-design**
    * Take a minute and update documentation before coding (global documentation, code comment, test comment).
    * Always keep a clear release road map. Update it if needed. 
    * Update README.md, CHANGELOG.txt, TODO.md as soon as possible.
* **Behavior driven development**
    * Add one functional test.
* **Test driven development**
    * Add one unit test while you don't pass this functional test
    * Develop function while you don't pass this unit test
* **Code version**
    * Commit after each new implemented function
    * Create a release after each validation of functional test
* **Refactoring**
    * Refactor code to improve readability, avoid code redundancy, speed compute time
    * Return to BDD part.

**Setup environment**

* **IDEA: Explain virtualenv and virtualenvwrapper**
* **IDEA: Create a init script that ask several question and bootstrap project (plug-in)**
* **IDEA: generate_setup to use sdist command**
* **IDEA: test new plugin creation on TimeSeriesLogger**
* **IDEA: move phase-currentcost.py outside of phase**
* **IDEA: phase in development should provide init script to init and register new plugin**


**TO BE COMPLETED**

Work flow
---------

**TO BE MOVED**

**Nominal case**

* N1: Service started
* N2: Arguments analysis
    * E1: Missing argument. Return an error and log it
    * E2: Bad value for an argument. Return and error and log it
* N3: Connexion to current cost
    * E3: Unable to connect to current cost. Send a message over the network to inform that it is not possible to connect to current cost and log it. Return to step N3.
* N4: Waited for a message from current cost
    * E4: If no message received after 30 seconds, send a message over the network to inform that there is a problem with current cost and log it. Return to step N4.
* N5: XML message received and analyzed
    * E5: Incorrect message. Log this message and return to step N4. (to be defined)
* N6: Creation of a network message looking like {variableID: ..., date: ..., message: ...}
* N7: Send this message over the network.
    * E6: Problem during message sending. Retry and log this error.
* N8: Message sent over the network. Return to step N4.

**Alternative cases**

* A1: USB port disconnected. Log this error, send an error message over the network and retry to reconnect to the USB port. If USB port reconnected, return to step N2.

Test plan
---------

**TO BE MOVED**

**IDEA: Link to features/currentcost.feature**

Look at features/currentcost.feature

License
-------

.. include:: ../../LICENSE.rst

Commit message:

Perform custom installation, create log.conf, target according folder

README.rst, after:

phase-currentcost
=================

Master branch:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost.png?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost
    :alt: Travis CI Build Status

Develop branch:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost.png?branch=develop
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/liogen/phase-currentcost
    :alt: Travis CI Build Status

Functional test with fixtures to simulate CurrentCost on port COM and waited for currentCost to send messages.

TO BE COMPLETED (goals of the project)

List of features:
 
 * support usb disconnexion
 * send instant consumption
 * send historical consumption
 * send timeout message
 * send bad formated message eroor
 * To be completed

Dependencies
------------

TO BE COMPLETED

 * rabbitMQ

Installation
------------

TO BE COMPLETED

Usage
-----

.. code-block:: bash

    $ phase-currentcost -h
    usage: phase-currentcost [-h] [-t TTY_PORT] [-r RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL]
                             [-l LOG_CONF] [-v]
                             variable_name site_name

    positional arguments:
      variable_name         name of the variable
      site_name             name of the location of the variable

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -t TTY_PORT, --tty-port TTY_PORT
                            tty port to connect to current cost
      -r RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL, --rabbitmq-credential RABBITMQ_CREDENTIAL
                            credential for rabbitMQ. By default, RabbitMQ is
                            deactivated. To activate it you have to give your
                            credential. Format: username:password.
      -l LOG_CONF, --log-conf LOG_CONF
                            path to log configuration
      -v, --verbose         activate verbose mode

By default:

* We are looking for default tty port located in /dev/currentcost. You can over-write it if you want using --tty-port argument.
* RabbitMQ is not activated. To activate it you have to add your credential to phase-currentcost script. To give your credential to currentcost script, use --rabbitMQ-credential argument.
* If RabbitMQ is not activated, we display currentcost message in stdout. Else we send it over the network. 
* Log configuration file is located in /opt/phase/phase-currentcost.conf and log file is in /var/logs/phase/phase-currentcost.log. You can set log configuration file using -l option and a path to your log.conf file.

Examples: 

To see the current consumption on Current cost on stdout use:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ phase-currentcost electric_meter liogen_home --tty-port /dev/currentcost

**IDEA: PUT CONSOLE OUTPUT AS AN EXAMPLE**

With rabbitMQ message over the network:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ phase-currentcost electric_meter liogen_home --tty-port /dev/currentcost --rabbitmq-credential admin:password -v

**IDEA: PUT CONSOLE OUTPUT AS AN EXAMPLE**

Structure of a message send 

Message send through RabbitMQ
-----------------------------

A message is a JSON containing this properties:

  * **variableID**: name of the variable
  * **siteID**: Name of the site
  * **date**: Date in UTC
  * **dstTimezone**: Timezone with DST
  * **nonDstTimezone**: Timezone without DST
  * **message**: Information message

Messages list:

+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ 
| Channel     | Message                         | Description                                       |
+=============+=================================+===================================================+ 
| error       | utils.TTY_CONNECTION_PROBLEM    | Send when TTY port is not reachable               |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| error       | utils.CURRENTCOST_TIMEOUT       | Send when TTY port is connected but reach timeout |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| error       | utils.CC_INCORRECT_MESSAGE      | Send when Currentcost send an invalid message     |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| currentcost | CurrentCost XML message         | Send Currentcost XML message                      |
+-------------+---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

Development process
-------------------

Install socat

**Philosophy**

In this project, we will try to use the best practices of the development.

* **Scenario based design** 
    * Take a paper and write what you code should do and how it should do using a story. (DESCRIBE MORE)
* **Document driven-design**
    * Take a minute and update documentation before coding (global documentation, code comment, test comment).
    * Always keep a clear release road map. Update it if needed. 
    * Update README.md, CHANGELOG.txt, TODO.md as soon as possible.
* **Behavior driven development**
    * Add one functional test.
* **Test driven development**
    * Add one unit test while you don't pass this functional test
    * Develop function while you don't pass this unit test
* **Code version**
    * Commit after each new implemented function
    * Create a release after each validation of functional test
* **Refactoring**
    * Refactor code to improve readability, avoid code redundancy, speed compute time
    * Return to BDD part.

**Setup environment**

* **IDEA: Explain virtualenv and virtualenvwrapper**
* **IDEA: Create a init script that ask several question and bootstrap project (plug-in)**
* **IDEA: generate_setup to use sdist command**
* **IDEA: test new plugin creation on TimeSeriesLogger**
* **IDEA: move phase-currentcost.py outside of phase**
* **IDEA: phase in development should provide init script to init and register new plugin**


**TO BE COMPLETED**

Work flow
---------

**TO BE MOVED**

**Nominal case**

* N1: Service started
* N2: Arguments analysis
    * E1: Missing argument. Return an error and log it
    * E2: Bad value for an argument. Return and error and log it
* N3: Connexion to current cost
    * E3: Unable to connect to current cost. Send a message over the network to inform that it is not possible to connect to current cost and log it. Return to step N3.
* N4: Waited for a message from current cost
    * E4: If no message received after 30 seconds, send a message over the network to inform that there is a problem with current cost and log it. Return to step N4.
* N5: XML message received and analyzed
    * E5: Incorrect message. Log this message and return to step N4. (to be defined)
* N6: Creation of a network message looking like {variableID: ..., date: ..., message: ...}
* N7: Send this message over the network.
    * E6: Problem during message sending. Retry and log this error.
* N8: Message sent over the network. Return to step N4.

**Alternative cases**

* A1: USB port disconnected. Log this error, send an error message over the network and retry to reconnect to the USB port. If USB port reconnected, return to step N2.

Test plan
---------

**TO BE MOVED**

**IDEA: Link to features/currentcost.feature**

Look at features/currentcost.feature

License
-------

.. include:: ../../LICENSE.rst
